Dr. Belis Aladag: We're going to be seeing jack Porter is curious report did not show any unusual activity actually did not show any activity in the last 12 months.
Jack Porter: Hello.
Jack Porter: Hi, how's it going
Dr. Belis Aladag: near me. Good. I'm Dr. Alan Yang, how are you
Jack Porter: I'm pretty good.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, alright. So, welcome to bright heart. Is this your first time doing care with us.
Jack Porter: Yeah, first time.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Way. Awesome. Um, so I'll tell you a bit about myself and then we'll dive into, like, what brings you in and all that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So I'm, I'm a family medicine doctor and a specialist in addiction. So I'm an addiction knowledge is
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that's kind of my area of expertise and before bright heart. I was working at Kaiser
In their
Dr. Belis Aladag: Department. So I'm fairly new to this Tele health world and the company and my
Jack Porter: Big everyone is
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then everyone is by default. Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You have to do it this way. Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Right. So it's interesting. Yeah, I'm so we're all new
Dr. Belis Aladag: And
Dr. Belis Aladag: And I'll tell you a bit about the structure. So we'll do our intake today. So we'll go into depth about, you know, your background and all that. And then, and then future visits with me will be in a group format.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um, so it would be you and a couple of other people. And we do check ins, like, Hey, how was your week you know and it's a weekly thing.
Cool.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, and it's it's actually worked out really well, which was a new concept for me to just have group doctor but it works out pretty good. And people really support each other. So hopefully you'll find that. Okay, so enough about me. I'm sorry. I've been talking a lot. You tell me.
Dr. Belis Aladag: What's going on now and and then let's go back to childhood. Like, when did you first start any sort of substance alcohol, whatever.
Oh, sure.
Jack Porter: So right now, so the last, the last year, I've been using blow like more than normal or four months was kind of a more severe type of abuse.
Jack Porter: So I kind of built up slowly over that year. The last four months was like more like the significant time period. So that's like, why this mine is all messed up right now.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, I see.
Jack Porter: Reading was I went to the I didn't really need to you, but I found one of these other emergency room to get checked out just to get it right away because
Dr. Belis Aladag: We bleeding like that like just trickling
Jack Porter: Yeah, pretty much. It's still drive right now but I went to the ear, nose and throat I saw your turn on Friday at the emergency room.
Jack Porter: Because they're saying you want to, you might want blood work too. And I got a lab test so blood, blood work, but I don't really know what they did on Friday.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You did they give you results they give you copies
Jack Porter: Yeah, I haven't looked at it. Honestly though, but I can send you whatever lab results they took that CT scan and a cobra test, which I'm negative, so that's
Jack Porter: The goal just suck.
Jack Porter: So gross.
Jack Porter: So this is all getting take care of. I'm not planning on Thursday.
Jack Porter: This is just looking
Dr. Belis Aladag: At this, it's all due to your over use of the
Jack Porter: You know, yeah, totally from damage from inhaling because it's all the way to do it.
Jack Porter: I know how to sew right. I don't really feel like learning
Dr. Belis Aladag: Let's try to find other ways.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Is good, but not for this.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Behavior not
Jack Porter: Exactly not, I don't need to be learning. Oh, well, you could have done.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Now,
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know,
Jack Porter: Okay, yeah. Anyways,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um, so the consequence of like the how. How long ago did you start noticing this trickling thing happening.
Jack Porter: Just started in February. So the last four months is the big time my
Jack Porter: Christmas is like really stressed stressed out and then so it kind of like I've been slowly doing it like Little bit. Little bit. Little bit and then like that kind of accelerated it and then February my face started to swell and then
Jack Porter: Then the blood followed
Jack Porter: Using
Jack Porter: And so this has been swelling swelling for last four months or not even. What if I if I'm not using it might as well. Might as well.
Jack Porter: And having issues with the side of my face before to with my teeth so
Jack Porter: Not sure why it's so it was really slow on Friday. It's kind of like a lot of times, like when I sleep I sleep a certain way it'll just pool or something but
Jack Porter: I'll follow up on that side. Naturally, the way
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know your anatomy is maybe just tends to pull
Jack Porter: The one I used out of always and then this one. That's not sure I've never really been able to breathe out of, like, I probably have I bet you have had a deviated septum. My whole life, the doctor looked at on Friday. So my septum look fine.
Jack Porter: The other big word was obliterated. They said the thing that filters here on the side.
Jack Porter: You probably know the name of it, but I have no idea.
Jack Porter: She said something I was
Terrible.
Jack Porter: Okay, so anyway, so that's this is all getting fixed
Dr. Belis Aladag: Fixed point yeah so swelling facial swelling on that right side, what's happening. And then, and then the blood came
Jack Porter: Got yeah just been constant for
Jack Porter: last four months as long as I was using
Jack Porter: I'm using the eight days last Sunday. So it's looking a lot better now starting. Two weeks ago, I looked a lot worse. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So sober for eight days now.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes. Awesome. Good for you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay so me made 30 said Sunday. Right.
Yeah.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Good. Awesome. That you stopped. So, so tell me about the stopping and what happened was it on do you live with your family, your parents.
Jack Porter: I live with my girlfriend.
Jack Porter: She found it got mad went down to her parents and slow. So I'd stopped. And then after she left. I was still at the apartment by myself. And so it was like
Jack Porter: They were aware of the problem.
Jack Porter: I started remember exactly how all this came about, but then
Jack Porter: I was going to stay at my friend's apartment. Every night. He's like a mile or two away.
Jack Porter: And so one night. It was the first night I stayed at my apartment is fine. The next night I was too tired to walk over there. So I texted
Jack Porter: My girlfriend's like I don't really feel like walking the two miles. So I'm assistant sleep here fell asleep and I woke up to my sister and my apartment waking me up.
Jack Porter: Like freaking out because I guess I guess she hadn't told other people and then they woke up to a whole bunch of texts. So everyone was like waiting for me to text them those into asleep or something like that. So I was like, pretty shocking to me.
Dr. Belis Aladag: They were waiting for our news from you that you were okay and in bed or they were
Jack Porter: Yeah, I was gonna
Jack Porter: Go to sleep. I'm still a little confused about the whole thing, but it was like I was supposed to go to my friend Kevin's so I was with someone I said I wasn't gonna go. They said, that's fine. So I fell asleep.
Jack Porter: And it just was like poor communication amongst amongst my siblings and my girlfriend.
Jack Porter: And then my brother ended up going down and staying over and then I told him everything in the morning because now it's kind of like in this big pickle.
Jack Porter: No Way Out so
Dr. Belis Aladag: Might as well.
Jack Porter: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so you're telling me about your siblings. It sounds like you guys have a pretty close family and like how many
Jack Porter: How much. Yeah. So I got two older sisters older half whether
Jack Porter: I grew up mostly with my sister's my half brother.
Jack Porter: Lived with his dad. Most the time it was in Texas for a few years. So I didn't seem too much growing up, but I said we're pretty close.
Jack Porter: Especially closer after
Jack Porter: Once I went to college and stuff like that. Was I started the grew up, but I would hang out with them every now and then he lived with my sister for a year in the city.
Jack Porter: So once you got older we get closer.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see how. So how old are you, and how old is your brother.
Jack Porter: I'm 25 and he's like 31 okay
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, yeah. As you get older. The gap is less important. Yeah.
Jack Porter: Yeah, we could do stuff and he wasn't like I was dad's ceremony and I could drive, you know, stuff like that so
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so, so, so your brother came and he told
Dr. Belis Aladag: Me. He's called physically close to now where you live.
Jack Porter: Yeah, he lives in Walnut Creek.
Jack Porter: Danville.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And close to you. Okay, so he can you told them everything and then and then did he say go to the ER is that how the ER.
Jack Porter: No, no we so that was like what Tuesday of last week and they'll be called my sister Nicole, because this is your baby and my parents came over told everything but and then I stayed that I went back to my parents for tonight is all very complicated.
Jack Porter: It's been a long week in my parents, and then the rest of the week. I stayed at my apartment with my mom there because they won't be alone.
Jack Porter: And then Friday. My sister page. So my, my sister, my mom and my brother all work at UCSF.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Jack Porter: And services to paste copy was like jack is really wanting to go to the yard. Get your nose looked at whatever they might find like that. So you're going to use to do so. That's so they did.
Jack Porter: Friday.
Jack Porter: I hung up for the home.
Jack Porter: hung up the phone with her and then took a shower gel. So thinking about it. I didn't want to go Friday because middle of my work day now seemed like a Saturday morning does like what don't spend my whole Saturday. And, er, so just went dealt with on Friday. He was there for eight hours.
Jack Porter: But yeah, they basically just gave me
Jack Porter: Antibiotics and to pay medicine because the swelling is hurt.
Jack Porter: And then, yeah, that's how I got the follow up with your nose and throat, too. Okay, got it.
Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And tell me, and then and then and then did your. Did you ever in the past. So prior to this incident of, like, you know, everything happening. Did you have any sort of treatment for drugs or alcohol or anything else in the past.
Jack Porter: No, you're a therapist once when I was in, I always forget this. I think eighth grade.
Jack Porter: Because I was having suicidal thoughts.
Jack Porter: And then so I saw therapist, but did relate the therapist didn't really know that much.
Jack Porter: It was more like a grumpy teenagers kind of syndrome, kind of thing.
Jack Porter: So I haven't had those thoughts, like, ever since, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Even when you're high even when you're using you
Jack Porter: Know, never crossed my mind.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, and you've never had attempts or anything.
Jack Porter: No, a close to attempt to back in eighth grade, but that's serious. Okay. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you're okay. From that standpoint, we don't have to worry
Jack Porter: Yeah, totally. I thought to do anything.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm gonna be low risk.
Jack Porter: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Awesome. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Um, and then just in general, you know, you mentioned the swelling and stuff. But do you have on a regular in a regular
Dr. Belis Aladag: On a regular day. Do you have other physical problems or symptoms like do you get shortness of breath or chest pains or stomach issues and you review of systems issues.
Jack Porter: No, I've been sleepy lately, but I think it might also be because of one of the payments. I was taken approximate
Jack Porter: Because, because I was I took in the morning. This morning, and I'd like instantly fell asleep and I slept like all day yesterday, all the whole night to and then I didn't you usually take it again now and then usually like yesterday, I will fell asleep.
Jack Porter: But I didn't take it today.
Jack Porter: The second time I feel totally fine. Jason constantly so
Dr. Belis Aladag: Maybe it does make you sleepy interested. Okay.
Jack Porter: Okay, maybe it's that it could have been withdrawals. It could have been just you know I'm obviously not in a super great happy mood. So it could be, you know, combo of a lot of things.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So after you went to the ER your family was okay with you being by yourself, then I guess.
Jack Porter: Like no, I'm with I'm with my family now.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, you are
Jack Porter: Okay, yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you're with your parents right now.
Jack Porter: I'm on my parents house or no.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Okay. Good. All right. I see because you had mentioned your mom, it comes to stay with us, but they didn't want you to be
Jack Porter: Yeah, she said, Man, they're like, you know, your apartment, you still see
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, now I see
Jack Porter: Okay, cool. So I got the battery low 20% thing.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, we
Jack Porter: Have
Jack Porter: But yeah, so I've done my parents ever since Friday.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Right okay and then tell me about work. You mentioned that you work. What do you do
Jack Porter: You have a design engineer and I work in typically are working certainly do. But we're working, working on
Dr. Belis Aladag: You're working from home. Okay, okay, which is a good
Jack Porter: I mean, yeah, we're kidding.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gotcha. And then family history is
Dr. Belis Aladag: Like mom, dad, grandparents anyone
Dr. Belis Aladag: Substance use alcohol.
Jack Porter: Yeah, lots
Jack Porter: So hi mom both your parents died from alcoholism early on when she was 1980
Jack Porter: And then my aunt Susie was like smoking heroin and stuff in high school.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And that's your maternal and her sister.
Jack Porter: My dad's
Dr. Belis Aladag: sister, sister. Okay.
Jack Porter: And then my whole
Jack Porter: My whole dad side smokes like smoking.
Jack Porter: Cigarettes. Yeah. Okay. And part but my mom doesn't know.
Jack Porter: Whatever.
Jack Porter: I think that's it, though. Yeah, my mom's parents and then smoking and then Susie's the least outlier.
Jack Porter: Okay, and there was mental health to my grandpa was bipolar manic depressive and my uncle marks.
Jack Porter: Artistic good probably just the doctors told my grandmother drink a glass of whiskey a day because it's good for the baby.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Guy Oh Lord,
Jack Porter: Gilbert. Gilbert so
Jack Porter: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, um,
Dr. Belis Aladag: And this is still maternal side mom side.
Jack Porter: No, it'll be on my dad's side.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That's okay. Yeah.
Jack Porter: My mom doesn't really uncle.
Jack Porter: Sister, but I haven't seen her probably 12 years. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gotcha. Speaking of cigarettes. Do you smell or vapor anything
Jack Porter: No, I don't like smoking anything, I'll take it edibles of like marijuana to help me sleep.
Jack Porter: But I don't take it during the day is like that. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And how often would you take the edible like occasional like
Jack Porter: Maybe once a week, maybe once a month.
Jack Porter: I'll go like months without using it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so that's not that hasn't been a problematic thing for you.
Jack Porter: Know, never
Dr. Belis Aladag: Alright, so let's go back to, like, I don't know, childhood or high school. Whenever you started. When did you first start drinking alcohol or did you try lead or what, what, what did you start with what happened with your
Jack Porter: Social I drink was
Jack Porter: Was an eighth grade.
Jack Porter: In high school, like bringing in the cities.
Jack Porter: For high school and Irish it's usually pretty early on.
Jack Porter: The call Grover's which is like they go to the place called the grove in the city. I love
That
Jack Porter: Oh, they have free concerts there every summer, though. So that's pretty fun.
Jack Porter: But you'll see a lot of high school district in their most days.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So much money are we are we referring to San Francisco or where
Jack Porter: Cisco. Yes.
Jack Porter: Cisco grip the outer sunset and then I'm living right now, everybody. The Ferry Building
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, I got you. Okay, so we're sampras's. See, I'm in LA. So I'm like, what
Jack Porter: Oh my
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gosh.
Jack Porter: Oh, you're on the East Bay.
Jack Porter: Yeah, we're in LA or yet.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And Hollywood Hills.
Jack Porter: Oh,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Nice Laurel Canyon. Yeah, right here.
Jack Porter: Reference from Long Beach and I still want to be told time too.
So, yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah.
Jack Porter: And then I drink a lot freshman year high school was because that's what everyone's doing
Jack Porter: But then I got get caught good ground for two weeks drinking and get grounded for two weeks after
Jack Porter: Freshman year I didn't really drink again till senior year of high school. Let's say intermittent drinking here there but like nothing nothing shocking or anything like that. You don't mean and just just beer.
Jack Porter: Okay wasn't thinking hard alcohol.
Jack Porter: Or blacking out
Dr. Belis Aladag: And it was at parties social events or were you doing it by yourself to
Jack Porter: Know, myself, who's always like you go everyone goes to the park and stand in a circle drinks, drinks a 40 ounce beer.
Jack Porter: And then I tried to try and get home, stay with the bus.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Don't don't drive. That's good.
Jack Porter: Okay, before Uber.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Uber days right I'm speaking of driving. You've never had legal issues DUI or any issues like that. Right.
Jack Porter: Now, I'm not a real big drinker. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Okay, so let's move on. So then what happened when did you start using this this cocaine.
Jack Porter: So I use it. My first time freshman year of college in Vegas.
Jack Porter: I did it one night and I hated it but at the same time with the back of my mind. I was like, I want more was like very aware. I was like that's like last night's sucked.
Jack Porter: What happened was I did it I sobered up realized my date was just horrible. I got set up with her and then like just didn't have a good time. There was tonight. Right. So it's like why would I like those just stupid.
Jack Porter: Just showed me up. I didn't have any more fun like everyone was super hammered so
Dr. Belis Aladag: Anything you were drinking. But then when you took this, it kind of sobered
Jack Porter: Up and everyone else has to offer know loopy and now I was sitting there, just like
Jack Porter: Like what are you feeling
Jack Porter: Like, I don't want to know. So, but at the same time, I was like, oh, I want more, so I was like that's making sense. So then that was the last time I did it until senior of college, I would say.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, you
Jack Porter: Didn't do it for four years after that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Did you did you purposefully stay away, you think, or was it just
Jack Porter: Yeah, totally, because
Jack Porter: I always thought back and I was like it was just a bad experience and I gotta like get caught up in it.
Jack Porter: And then I would do it, then I started to do it every now and then.
Jack Porter: Senior. Yeah, I think it's fine, but like I never bought it is the thing I got only do it if someone else had never bought it.
Okay.
Jack Porter: But then it was like, kind of like my girlfriend and I she would be like no night. She's like, I want it. And one of them was like, Well, I want it to.
Jack Porter: So if they're buying it. So you have to
Jack Porter: Try and find it late at night.
Jack Porter: But I never had probably college, I would say, like, it sounds like I'm doing a lot does didn't I couldn't afford it.
Jack Porter: Because I was in college, and there's nowhere to get it either down there. Yeah.
Jack Porter: I was I was cowboys, you know, Cisco. Okay, so it's very small, small town.
Jack Porter: I like I don't like going out either so
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so the girlfriend was there. That's the same girlfriend. You're with or a different one.
Jack Porter: Yeah, but she's not she was using like at all pretty much
Jack Porter: The same girlfriend.
Okay.
Jack Porter: It's kind of like a stage of life. We went through together, if that makes sense.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Together and it was occasional and
Jack Porter: Very occasional very like
Jack Porter: Afterwards, be like, Oh, it's you know need like wouldn't do it for another four or five months and then it would just be in front of us and not sure why not. You know, I mean,
Jack Porter: Like kind of pure, pure pressure, group, group settings. Okay.
Jack Porter: Typically when we would do it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then you and the girlfriend moved after you graduated
Jack Porter: Graduated came up here to
Jack Porter: To the city San Francisco and kind of the same thing, or like group settings.
Jack Porter: Very rare, though very rare, maybe once a month, once every two months. Once every four months, something like that. Those are the first year and then
Jack Porter: We live in my parents apartment or parents house. My girlfriend. I did for three months. And I was just horrible is very stressful for both of us. We were sleeping in different rooms.
Jack Porter: This is how my parents house is laid out. I slept on the air masters for three months.
Jack Porter: But all my stuff like right behind me on this, on the couch. Yeah, she's living out of like bags basically for three months.
And get
Jack Porter: Yeah, and then post my girlfriend's living with my parents. And so when we were apart, we can ever have any load time because we're very like very much like our alone time yeah and privacy and we you know we can't do anything.
Dr. Belis Aladag: With them for three months or so.
Jack Porter: Three months. Yeah. So yeah, about three months open air mattress. She slipped in this room that I'm in right now.
Jack Porter: And it was really, really hard. And then we finally got an apartment from so that we know studio apartment. We moved there.
Jack Porter: Close by to my parents to
OK.
Jack Porter: And then Mike, you are my commute was like killing me because I did go to go to San Leandro which is across the Bay Bridge and I was driving my car kept breaking down
Jack Porter: It's like an hour and a half, one way, so be three hours. So we're driving past my question. We can down or if I take the bus. It's
Jack Porter: Probably an hour and a half, one way, but come on a bus.
Jack Porter: No matter which way you cut it.
Jack Porter: Say, I was just really hard and then plus I'm working out of the city and she's working in the city. So if she ever wanted to do something after where I can play. I can't. I gotta go home and wanted to go home and drop off my staff or you know whatever so
Jack Porter: It was very tough. It was very stressful. That was, like, kind of, when I started to use
Jack Porter: Just to kind of get through the society with the commute. Can I come home, just like exhausted.
Jack Porter: There's just like this pure exhaustion, that there's nothing you can do to fix it. Just because sit in the car for an hour and a half. And she's like, you know, one of the Hangout. I can't hang out. So
Jack Porter: It's like, oh my god, like I can only do this for so long.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you would use like when would you use when you came home, or would use it in the mornings and what like what a
Jack Porter: Little bit of the mornings and I came home.
Jack Porter: Just to kind of pick myself up because just so tired all the time. But that was still read
Jack Porter: It and then
Jack Porter: Right around Christmas right before Christmas, she started to look at apartments and they've got an apartment by the Ferry Building works where we live now.
Okay.
Jack Porter: So we moved and I would say right around that moving time is when it picked up to where it was getting at, and that's because Christmas is very stressful. It was like the peak of my commuting stress.
Jack Porter: Christmas time with my family's always very stressful because I like a lot of it gets put on me.
Jack Porter: With my commute and everything else and and plus. Now we're moving to on top of it all. You got the apartment. It was like, holy crap you know
Dr. Belis Aladag: Tell me about why is it put on you. Are you the you're the baby of the family.
Jack Porter: Yeah, but I'm also the
Jack Porter: Let's see my family's very traditional
Jack Porter: Like the men, does this or the man does this
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you're the guy. You're the man.
Jack Porter: I'm the dude I'm the only guy and I got two sisters and a mom. So it was always usually this. Yeah, I think the perfect example is
Jack Porter: We have to have salad dressing from some restaurant. My sister lives two blocks away. For me, it's a 40 minute drive one way. A 40 minute drive back to the way and I was wanting to get it.
Jack Porter: When you feel
Jack Porter: It's just like little stuff like that. Well, my, my girlfriend's in there to, like, oh my god, it's just like most ridiculous thing every
Dr. Belis Aladag: Day on related. So have you ever said anything like Hey, oh yeah.
Jack Porter: Maybe you use it all the time and
Jack Porter: It's just to the fights. I just learned to accept it and
Jack Porter: I'll never went because I got both my sisters and my mom against me.
Jack Porter: Always
Dr. Belis Aladag: You
Know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh wow, okay. I see what you mean. So you had that, you know, like a holiday preparation whatever moving and
Jack Porter: Moving or girlfriend's parents came up and we're staying with us. And where's the studio single room one bed and accounts that are touching each other and the bathroom that you can see from the same room we got four people now on there.
Jack Porter: So I gotta deal with them. They want me to do one thing, my parents wanted me to pick a salad dressing, an hour and a half way with no car.
Jack Porter: Stressful.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I can understand that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You felt
Dr. Belis Aladag: Would you say it's accurate to say you felt kind of stretched thin and you were using partially because I mean yeah you enjoyed it. There's that addictive like this makes me feel good, but also, did you feel like you needed that you felt you needed it to like get you going or
Jack Porter: Yeah, I said I needed to bounce back
Jack Porter: Because that's the work like this, how I would describe it. So I always feel like I'm getting stretched in all different directions.
Jack Porter: It sounds like my family wants to do one thing, my friends want me to another thing. It's like, for some reason, every, every time. Everything lands on the same day.
Jack Porter: My birthday, my girlfriend's marathon just got pushed to my birthday.
Jack Porter: Versus on that day or I think we were going to go to Toronto and and it was like for people's birthdays that day and then
Jack Porter: So like it's just everything always lands on the same day. And it's always three events that I get to choose which one to go to, I don't know. You know, that's how I've always been
Dr. Belis Aladag: Kind of
Jack Porter: Got a big family lots of friends. So it's lots lots going on.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Which is a blessing, but it can also be, you know, stressful. I can see that. Yeah.
Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Good to have friends and family. But that's a lot to like balance.
Jack Porter: Yeah, balancing. It's hard because I want to let somebody down and I never know who make the choice of which one I'm not let down essentially
Jack Porter: But where was I going with this.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You're feeling like, go, go, go. I'm going to end. You just kept using
Jack Porter: Just mostly just honestly just, I was just like, fuck it. You know, I mean, there's, I didn't really see the benefit will stay early
Jack Porter: But I was just like, whatever, something to do
Jack Porter: I say why not keep doing it. There's no like logic or, you know, this is this one really make me feel good, you know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: I see you just kept it was on automatic pilot kind of things.
Jack Porter: Yeah, just why not. I was like, maybe as well, maybe this will help, but he was just like, I don't even know I'm doing it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, and then were you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Have you need for months, especially the last month, I guess, were you using daily
Jack Porter: Yeah, I'd say all four months to do the daily
Jack Porter: But there'll be days ago, or even a week or two. I'd go without it, and it'd be pretty easy for me just to totally stop.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Really, okay.
Jack Porter: Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So you do feel pretty confident now like that you're going to carry. Like, how do you feel about sobriety. First of all,
Jack Porter: That's a pretty good. I feel pretty good because
Jack Porter: I just think back to my freshman year in college when I first did it.
Jack Porter: And I was able to stop for you or not do it for 44 years and say no straight up to
Jack Porter: The answer to get back in that mindset.
Jack Porter: Of it's like why, you know, I mean, where's the benefit and they know I can see all this shit I fucked up.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, the physical stuff on your
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes. Yeah, that's not cool.
Jack Porter: What's the great benefit of it. I would feel weird for 20 minutes, whatever.
Jack Porter: Yeah day so you know some Dad's gonna happen. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah because okay today. It's your nose in your face, but like tomorrow. It could be your heart, you know,
Jack Porter: You can
Dr. Belis Aladag: Have a stroke, you know, God forbid, things happen even if, you know, and the thing with cocaine that come like like let's say alcohol. Alcohol usually cumulative. It depends on the amount, people can really dive poisoning.
Dr. Belis Aladag: But yeah, most of the time it's a cumulative toxic effect with cocaine, though, it's like it's a cute like it could hit you right then and just
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, and we don't want that that's just, that's terrible. Yep.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, okay, good. So I'm glad like somehow it all this stuff led to you, snapping out of it and being like, wait a minute. Yeah. What am I doing
Jack Porter: Yeah, that's all I need. I just need to take a second to start like there is what time when I always told my buddy about it. Just, just because I you know I didn't want it to get out of it. I kind of felt like it could do anything about it.
Jack Porter: I think I always knew I needed something else to push me. Yeah, but I never had the balls to do it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gotcha. And your girlfriend, she know she kind of occasions with us back in the days and stuff. This this last four month thing she didn't really know about or you kind of hit it.
Jack Porter: Off I did all of yourself.
Jack Porter: Secretly
Dr. Belis Aladag: Which is also different. Right. So that tells you also the time problematic.
Jack Porter: You're like, yeah, that's, that's why I wanted to tell my buddy was like she was sleeping there, and I was still awake like
Jack Porter: In pain and like, see what are you doing man like I don't you know
Jack Porter: Why am I get a waste with, you know, my girlfriend. I have over what, you know, just something that's going to make my face, or even more. Yeah, exactly.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Okay, well I'm glad I mean I'm glad for you that things came out at this point, instead of later or whatever when things got worse.
Yep.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And it's good. You went to the ER. Yeah, it's not fun. You had to wait all that time, but at least you got the EMT appointment and in this whole world. It's really difficult to get appointments and things
Jack Porter: But yeah
Dr. Belis Aladag: So that you
Dr. Belis Aladag: Get the healing whatever they're going to help you with, you know, make sure you're talking about the swelling because EMT, they know
Jack Porter: She saw she saw it's going to take a picture of that because he was swallowed up on Friday. I like that.
Okay.
Jack Porter: Yeah, so they decided, okay,
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm okay so that's, I see. Um, so now. So it sounds like you were hoping and kind of trying to maybe do something about it. And then it just kind of happened, and now it's all out there.
Dr. Belis Aladag: How do you feel now, do you feel like, okay, good. And you feel motivated to stay sober and stay away from this stuff, or how do you feel
Jack Porter: Yeah, I just want to change a lot about me life. I haven't really had a routine. I think it's the biggest thing is I haven't had a routine obviously having an email to try to have a routine last week.
Jack Porter: It's been all over the place.
Jack Porter: But
Dr. Belis Aladag: Let's give you some wiggle room in the last week or so.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I mean it's not your fault, you have another team, but
Jack Porter: Yeah, that's the one I don't want to, you know, start working out and you start
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes.
Jack Porter: I think the big, the big thing with me is like my commute. I never could have a routine because I'd get home at
Jack Porter: Seven. Gotta go sleep. I gotta wake up at six or if I'm going to work out. You like about five
Jack Porter: Which means, are you asleep right away. I can't go from wants to talk to me. She wants to stay up cuz she's you know how to be essentially an easier day travel why it's not necessary work wise.
Jack Porter: But
Dr. Belis Aladag: So now that you're from home. What happens to be able to switch things around or change your job or what happened.
Jack Porter: Well, no, because I was doing which blows. I could have Richie
Jack Porter: I was always awake.
Jack Porter: That's the thing. Like I you know I should use this time to get a good routine my work stress is definitely way down, but I think
Jack Porter: I just did not. I should have stopped by it stopped, everything will be hunky dory. And I probably be
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so, because they have you working from home. You want yes Affleck thing because okay okay so this is
Dr. Belis Aladag: Temporary. I mean, until we know when the coven thing is over.
Jack Porter: So is there anything to us. I'm planning on quitting my job and applying to other places in the city.
Jack Porter: And then I gotta leave into why because July will be my two year anniversary. I'll get a credentials, be a professional engineer and then also be
Jack Porter: Money wise, it makes a lot more sense. I'll be
Jack Porter: 50% vested that was always the plan. And I've been applying to jobs and stuff like that. The coded hits and it's like okay well I'm not going to get a job anywhere anymore.
Dr. Belis Aladag: No, right now, but I can, I can still jump ship to a different locations near firm pretty easily. Honestly,
Jack Porter: The only issue is, most of them are in Oakland and
Jack Porter: You stay where I don't want or don't go
Dr. Belis Aladag: You don't want to
Jack Porter: I need to work somewhere in the city.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, I think that's been clear like you need that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: For balance in your life, you need to be close to where you work.
Jack Porter: Yeah, it's like it's just no life to have to commute like that. So yeah, you can have a life. You can't do anything.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, and it's not it's not healthy for you.
Jack Porter: Know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Hey that's viable. So I, yeah, I definitely agree with that, in terms of timing, though, like the the fortunate thing is because of the circumstances, you get to be at home.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, so, like you said, Now that you have the. You don't have to deal with traffic you should though start now creating a schedule where you're waking up at the same time, approximately sleeping at the same time.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Feeling like a sense of accomplishment, because you get your workout like half hour, two hours, whatever workout, you do you, do you know and you okay check, you know, did that for the day, or whatever, you know, you maybe start with the day with something maybe the exercise, maybe
Jack Porter: Yeah, that's what I wanted just like it's just been hard obviously like Friday of every eight hours. And I'm just like, trying to catch up on sleep or then
Jack Porter: Pretty sure when pain pills making me feel tired because, you know, I mean, so I've been trying to get in there. A team has just been hard mainly with my since
Jack Porter: I already get that back. And then I think a lot of things will fall from there.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And your body is adjusting to, like, Okay, well, now we're not, you know, constantly being
Jack Porter: Yeah. Usually I wake up a lot more right
Around now.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So it's an adjustment. You got to give it time. Okay. Um, what else do I need to ask, Oh surgeries. Have you had any surgeries.
Jack Porter: No.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Have you had any allergies to medications.
Jack Porter: No. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Are you on any meds are you taking any Well besides the antibiotic Roxanne and things they gave you
Jack Porter: That's, that's it. Okay. Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And
Jack Porter: I do take, I take, I'll take edibles every now and then.
Jack Porter: Every now and then to help you sleep, sleep.
Jack Porter: Yeah, but that's
Jack Porter: That's it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you
Dr. Belis Aladag: The eighth grade thing was happening, and you did the Brief Therapy. Do you think you have any depression or have you ever been diagnosed with depression or any other mental illness.
Jack Porter: No other therapists are trying to say I like a mood disorder. I think he was I just never talked in those therapist sessions. I think he was just trying to say a diagnosis or something.
Jack Porter: I don't know. I don't think I honestly have ones. But no, I mean, other like just dealing with this situation I'm in right now, not being super pumped about it.
Jack Porter: I don't have like chronic depression. I wouldn't say it's more just a product of my environment.
Right.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Situation.
Jack Porter: Yeah, like being exhausted, or you know things not going super well but not like a bottomless pit.
Jack Porter: Kind of feeling
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Yeah, that's good.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so
Dr. Belis Aladag: So okay, so I think I have a good idea of what's going on. I think I asked everything I need to ask from you. Is there anything we didn't touch upon that we should
Jack Porter: No, I think my only question is, are going to be group from here on out. Correct.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Cool. Okay. Um, if, if, if you have a situation or whatever. And you're like, you know, I really would prefer an individual session to discuss in more depth with you.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Rather than in the group. You can always ask for individual you know schedule that but but i think i think it'll be good because ok so the other portion. So I forgot to mention the other thing is that you are assigned a therapist.
Dr. Belis Aladag: In our program, so you
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's a man. It's kind of mandatory that you do a one time.
Dr. Belis Aladag: It's called bio psychosocial like a brief introductory kind of thing assessment.
Jack Porter: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: With the therapist and then once that's done in that visit you in and that person will decide, okay, do we want to do therapy and how frequently do we want to do it. It could be weekly. It could be monthly, you know, it just varies
Dr. Belis Aladag: Gotcha. And so I think that for you for your particular situation. I think that actually would be really good to have like it's almost like having your own personal coach like personal time with the with the therapist to do individual therapy and then you'll do like group with me and
Jack Porter: Yeah.
You know,
Dr. Belis Aladag: In the group. I have another therapist helping me run the group so
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay that's there too. Okay. And it's a mixed group. So like, not everybody has the same problem. I have a lot of people opioid addiction problem.
Jack Porter: Oh, I bet.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah. So, but, you know, everybody has things in common they can relate to, like, oh yeah, you know, I felt like things were out of control or, you know, I just felt compelled or whatever it is. And we can
Jack Porter: Read
Dr. Belis Aladag: So it'll be cool. I think it'll be good. You can
Dr. Belis Aladag: Join us. So in terms of priming. There's a okay there's a
Dr. Belis Aladag: Friday or Thursday.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Or PM.
Jack Porter: Let's do
Jack Porter: Some tough ones.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Or there's Monday mornings.
Jack Porter: And was supposed to be recurring so let's do a
Jack Porter: Thursday at four.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, that's a good group.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Jack Porter: Groups stink.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Don't tell me
Don't tell them
Dr. Belis Aladag: As its own personality. You know, like there's, you know, the crowd is different and whatever the Monday. For example, the Monday morning. One is all guys and
Dr. Belis Aladag: You know, it has its own kind of feel to it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Feel and it's cool. It's like a
Dr. Belis Aladag: Brotherhood type
Dr. Belis Aladag: But the Thursday group is a nice one males and females. And I think majority are young, like your age range.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So yeah, I think it'll be probably a good you'd like crowd. Yeah, okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Cool. Okay, so we'll see you. So what you do is you log into the virtual clinic that you just did today. Yeah.
Jack Porter: And they'll give me your code or whatever.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, exactly. You say, hey, go in at like 330. That's my advice because it gets booked up. You know, so just going through
Jack Porter: So I can go to any group technically
Dr. Belis Aladag: No, no, what I mean is you know that that zoom numbers for the virtual clinic.
Jack Porter: Yes. Yeah. So I go in and I I tell them I want to go the four o'clock at 330
Jack Porter: When would you say gets booked out
Dr. Belis Aladag: Meaning the virtual clinic gets full
Jack Porter: Oh, sorry, the waiting room for like 45 minutes
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, it's like it's like the front desk right so like you're at the
Jack Porter: Hotel. You're saying no.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Oh, like three or 330 it's better because even if you have to wait. You'll still make it to four o'clock and not miss the group.
Jack Porter: Yeah, just throw your phone off to the side for the blog or whatever.
Exactly.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Um,
Dr. Belis Aladag: When you check in, they're going to ask you to do a survey about, you know, your addiction, like where
Dr. Belis Aladag: You're at how are you feeling today. Are you having cravings, whatever. All those things are in the survey and that takes some time like 510 minutes. So that's why it's also good to do it early and I can early so that by four, you're ready to go.
Jack Porter: Gotcha. OK.
Dr. Belis Aladag: OK, so I'll see you Thursday at
4pm
Dr. Belis Aladag: Until then,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Do call the virtual clinic and say, hey, I need to make my therapy appointment my
Dr. Belis Aladag: One on one therapy appointment.
Jack Porter: Okay, I'll share after this
Dr. Belis Aladag: Don't
Jack Porter: Forget and schedule.
Dr. Belis Aladag: That you have it in the book because it's like
Dr. Belis Aladag: Kind of part of the processing.
Jack Porter: So it would be able to do the Thursday meeting without that kind of thing.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Well,
Jack Porter: I mean, I made me do it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: I just
Dr. Belis Aladag: I'm gonna I'm gonna encourage
Dr. Belis Aladag: You I'll keep badgering you so might as well just do it.
Jack Porter: Oh, zero right now. See if I get tomorrow.
Dr. Belis Aladag: OK. OK. So I'll see you Thursday. I think I'm glad that you know you're on this side of the fence. Now, and that you have some thoughts about what you need to do to be well. One is getting some routine down in this new phase.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Not having to commute and to trying to figure out how to not get back to community.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So those
Dr. Belis Aladag: Two things that
Jack Porter: Just let me work from home.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, so those two are essential for your health. Right now, so
Jack Porter: I'll say it.
Jack Porter: Requires factors.
Doctors
Jack Porter: Copa
Jack Porter: Opposite sex.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So, okay. Oh good jack
Dr. Belis Aladag: The pleasure talking to you. Thank you for sharing everything and you know being a gastric about your recovery and like just getting back to just being healthy and
Jack Porter: Yeah, let's get better.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, get better. Yeah. Okay. Cool. And then if you all send you an email with some reminders. So you can always
Okay.
Jack Porter: My blood work at all. Do you want me to send you that stuff.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah you if you get it. If you haven't, take a picture, you can email me back.
Jack Porter: Yeah, it's all my UCSF my chart or whatever. So I guess I don't know how to work at the
Dr. Belis Aladag: Same shot or something.
Jack Porter: Yeah, there's just like so many results lab. I get to find the I'll send you everything
Dr. Belis Aladag: I know if you need any extras. I'll tell you what they are.
Jack Porter: Okay, because I'm right down the street from I'm going back on Thursday to the ear, nose and throat. So if you see anything.
Jack Porter: I just get it done.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Is there a slab near you.
Jack Porter: I think it's at the same place going on Thursday. Oh.
Jack Porter: Sure. Oh, that's why I've heard questions for it because I got it before.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, perfect. Yeah. And yeah, I mean,
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yes, send me your results. And if I can sort through I will if not just go to question you tell them on a bright heart health patient and they have a standing order that they order for every patient
Jack Porter: Oh, cool.
Dr. Belis Aladag: And you do
Dr. Belis Aladag: The blood and you do the urine. There's a urine test so
Dr. Belis Aladag: You should just go and do it. I mean, I don't know.
Jack Porter: Yeah, I think it's right next door to the hospital. So
Dr. Belis Aladag: You could just do it all. I mean, there's probably going to be some repeats, but there's probably stuff in there that they didn't do like there's STD screening HIV see
Jack Porter: I mean, yeah, should be with the same partner. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: The liver liver function and
Kimmy.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Let's see if your results have it but but those will be ordered
Dr. Belis Aladag: And then the urine part, you could just give the urine and the urine part is just doing like a drug screen, you know,
Jack Porter: Okay, I got to take a drug test you so probably we did those every other day or something.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay, so yeah, so the so bright heart will be mailing you drug test.
Jack Porter: For I spent 20 bucks on it.
Dr. Belis Aladag: You should
Dr. Belis Aladag: Save your money.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Because they will mail you one every month. So it's random. It just comes in the mail. It's an envelope, like a manila envelope. Don't open it called the virtual clinic until I got no flow.
Dr. Belis Aladag: They watch you open it. You go to the bathroom. They don't watch you in the bathroom but you come back from bathroom and you show them like the temperature and the reason
Jack Porter: Is because it's, I don't know what address, you would have, but I'm not my parents and my go to my old apartment.
Let me
Jack Porter: And I don't know, I might be going back there. So,
Jack Porter: I have to look and see what my parents address, which is what I would think it's under now.
Jack Porter: So you go through check that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So yeah, when we, when we hang up now and you're going to call to say, hey, I need a therapist will
Jack Porter: Double check that.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Double check the thing and then we can, you can always change it around when you move back to
Jack Porter: Yeah, right. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Because that mail I don't know when they'll mail it out, but it might. It might be right away or it might be actually after a couple weeks, but it's good to keep it accurate your, your address.
Jack Porter: Totally, yeah, that's what I'm thinking about it, you know.
Dr. Belis Aladag: So right now you should really
Dr. Belis Aladag: Change it to your, your parents address. And then when you do decide to move then change it back. Okay.
Jack Porter: Yeah, I bet, I bet. Yes, my parents right now about still go check. Yeah.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay.
Dr. Belis Aladag: see you Thursday at 4pm with your, your alarm on for 330 so you know remind you to come check in.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Yeah, and then we'll see each other.
Jack Porter: Cool. And then you're going to send me an email right now. Correct, yes.
Jack Porter: I'll follow up with all the bugs and stuff.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Okay. Sounds good night.
Dr. Belis Aladag: Bye Bye bye.